Title: Here’s to 2013
----
Date: 31.12.2012
----
Text:
2012 has been a crazy year. I quit my job in the healthcare industry and moved to Berlin to work with (link: http://www.6wunderkinder.com text: 6Wunderkinder).

Truth be told, it was a decision that scared me like no other before. I left a good, safe job with a lot of responsibilities in a completely different industry where I worked on high tech products with people that were all way older than myself to join an ambitious startup in Berlin at a pretty rough time. I took this as a positive sign, since it meant I was leaving my comfort zone and taking the chance for personal development.

Now, after one year I can tell that it was the best decision I made so far. It has been tougher than I expected. It was exhausting, challenging and fulfilling at the same time.

Berlin, a city that I didn’t like a lot nor planned to live in at all, became my new home. Today, I enjoy living here more than anything else. Berlin is full of change and inspiration. The startup ecosystem and the spirit it brings to the city is fantastic and motivating, although I also learned to keep a piece of skepticism towards the scene.

At 6Wunderkinder we had a great year, even if some things didn't work out the way they were planned. We have been facing some tough challenges that let us grow as a company, as a team and as individuals in the end. Thanks to all the amazing people there!

What’s more, I learned a lot about myself and the people that surround me. The new environment made me think a lot about where I come from and what influences my personal behavior and believes. I hope that it will make me a better friend, colleague or advisor in the future.

In early summer my uncle was diagnosed with cancer. Luckily, he got treatment and today things seem to look better again. He is somebody who influenced my thinking a lot, especially when I was a child. I admire his sense for craftsmanship, precision and quality. His diagnosis made me think about goals in life, family values and that there’s a world outside the tech startup scene. My only wish for 2013 is that he will be ok again.

All in all, my 2012 was about people and relationships. I had the chance to meet so many wonderful people in my professional and private life in 2012, that it's hard to tell in detail how all of them inspired my thinking and doing. But be assured, all of you left your mark.

So, what’s up for the new year? In 2013 I want to focus on becoming a better leader, thinker and designer. I want to share my experience with my teams, students and entrepreneurs. I want to build great products at 6Wunderkinder that help people get more productive.

And if I could take some time to inspire just a few folks to look beyond the current consumer internet trends and use their talent to create products that really matter, that’s what my 2013 should be about. There’s so much more that people like us can do to change education, healthcare and public service for the better. All the knowledge we have about technology, design and the digital life would be well invested.

In the end, we are the generation that is going to make life digital.

— So what’s your 2013 gonna be?
----